OSDOCS-5239: Documented AWS LZ IP auto creation of subnets (#60771)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/edge-machine-pools-aws-local-zones.adoc

Edge worker nodes are tainted worker nodes that run in AWS Local Zones locations.

When deploying a cluster that uses Local Zones, consider the following points:

* Amazon EC2 instances in the Local Zones are more expensive than Amazon EC2 instances in the Availability Zones.
* Latency between applications and end users is lower in Local Zones, and latency might vary by location. A latency impact exists for some workloads if, for example, routers are mixed between Local Zones and Availability Zones.

> * The cluster-network Maximum Transmission Unit (MTU) adjusts automatically to the lower restricted value by AWS when Local Zone subnets are detected on the `install-config.yaml`, according to the network plugin. For example, the adjusted values are 1200 for OVN-Kubernetes and 1250 for OpenShift SDN. If you enable additional features, you can manually adjust an MTU value.

Author: Removed this section.

The network plugin can provide additional features, like IPsec, that also must be decreased the MTU. For additional information, see the documentation.
====

{product-title} 4.12 introduced a new compute pool, _edge_, that is designed for use in remote zones. The edge compute pool configuration is common between AWS Local Zone locations. Because of the type and size limitations of resources like EC2 and EBS on Local Zone resources, the default instance type can vary from the traditional worker pool.

The default Elastic Block Store (EBS) for Local Zone locations is `gp2`, which differs from the regular worker pool. The instance type used for each Local Zone on edge compute pool also might differ from worker pools, depending on the instance offerings on the zone.

The edge compute pool creates new labels that developers can use to deploy applications onto AWS Local Zone nodes. The new labels are:

* `node-role.kubernetes.io/edge=''`
* `machine.openshift.io/zone-type=local-zone`
* `machine.openshift.io/zone-group=$ZONE_GROUP_NAME`

////
By default, the system creates the edge compute pool manifests only if users add AWS Local Zone subnet IDs to the list `platform.aws.subnets`.
////

> By default, the machine sets for the edge compute pool defines the `taint` of `NoSchedule` to prevent regular workloads from spreading on Local Zone instances. Users can only run user workloads if they define tolerations in the pod specification.

Reviewer: Does `taint` need backticks? 🤔 I searched the openshift-docs repo and I don't see any instances of taint being in backticks. See https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.13/virt/install/virt-specifying-nodes-for-virtualization-components.html#virt-example-node-placement-tolerations-hyperconverged-cr_virt-specifying-nodes-for-virtualization-components

Additionally, is `NoSchedule` a configuration parameter in a the edge compute pool resource? If so I would suggest adding some context, such as "...of the `NoSchedule`  edge compute pool parameter"

Author: Correct. I searched https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.13/nodes/scheduling/nodes-scheduler-taints-tolerations.html#nodes-scheduler-taints-tolerations-about_nodes-scheduler-taints-tolerations and `taints` not `taint` is a valid parameter. Dropped backticks from "taint".

Author: I provided a links to https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.13/nodes/scheduling/nodes-scheduler-taints-tolerations.html#nodes-scheduler-taints-tolerations-about_nodes-scheduler-taints-tolerations that shows that the `NoSchedule` is a value of the `effect` parameter. @skrthomas and @mtulio , does including a link to "Understanding taints and tolerations" help provide context are taint value of `NoSchedule`?

The following examples show `install-config.yaml` files that use the edge machine pool.

.Configuration that uses an edge pool with a custom instance type
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
baseDomain: devcluster.openshift.com
metadata:
  name: ipi-localzone
compute:
- name: edge
  platform:
    aws:
      type: m5.4xlarge
platform:
  aws:
    region: us-west-2
pullSecret: '{"auths": ...}'
sshKey: ssh-ed25519 AAAA...
----

Instance types differ between locations. To verify availability in the Local Zone in which the cluster will run, see the AWS documentation.

.Configuration that uses an edge pool with a custom EBS type
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
baseDomain: devcluster.openshift.com
metadata:
  name: ipi-localzone
compute:
- name: edge
  platform:
    aws:
      rootVolume:
        type: gp3
        size: 120
platform:
  aws:
    region: us-west-2
pullSecret: '{"auths": ...}'
sshKey: ssh-ed25519 AAAA...
----

> EBS types differ between locations. Check the AWS documentation to verify availability in the Local Zone in which the cluster will run.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
EBS types differ between locations. Check the AWS documentation to verify availability in the Local Zone in which the cluster runs.
```

Reviewer: Avoid future tense

The network plugin can provide additional features, like IPsec, that also must be decreased the MTU. For additional information, see the documentation.
====

{product-title} 4.12 introduced a new compute pool, _edge_, that is designed for use in remote zones. The edge compute pool configuration is common between AWS Local Zone locations. Because of the type and size limitations of resources like EC2 and EBS on Local Zone resources, the default instance type can vary from the traditional worker pool.

The default Elastic Block Store (EBS) for Local Zone locations is `gp2`, which differs from the regular worker pool. The instance type used for each Local Zone on edge compute pool also might differ from worker pools, depending on the instance offerings on the zone.

The edge compute pool creates new labels that developers can use to deploy applications onto AWS Local Zone nodes. The new labels are:

* `node-role.kubernetes.io/edge=''`
* `machine.openshift.io/zone-type=local-zone`
* `machine.openshift.io/zone-group=$ZONE_GROUP_NAME`

////
By default, the system creates the edge compute pool manifests only if users add AWS Local Zone subnet IDs to the list `platform.aws.subnets`.
////

> By default, the edge compute pool's machine sets have a `NoSchedule taint` to prevent regular workloads from spreading on those machines. Users can only run user workloads if they define tolerations on the pod spec.

Author: Updated.

The following examples show `install-config.yaml` files that use the edge machine pool.

.Configuration that uses an edge pool with default settings
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
baseDomain: devcluster.openshift.com
metadata:
  name: ipi-localzone
platform:
  aws:
    region: us-west-2
compute:
- name: edge
  platform:
    aws:
      zones:
      - <local_zone_name_1>
      - <local_zone_name_2>
  pullSecret: '{"auths": ...}'
sshKey: ssh-ed25519 AAAA...

> ----

Author: Removed this example.

.Configuration that uses an edge pool with a custom instance type
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
baseDomain: devcluster.openshift.com
metadata:
  name: ipi-localzone
compute:
- name: edge
  platform:
    aws:
      type: m5.4xlarge
platform:
  aws:
    region: us-west-2
compute:
- name: edge
  platform:
    aws:
      zones:
      - <local_zone_name_1>

>       - <local_zone_name_2>

Author: Removed snippet from example.

sshKey: ssh-ed25519 AAAA...
----

Instance types differ between locations. To verify availability in the Local Zone in which the cluster will run, see the AWS documentation.

.Configuration that uses an edge pool with a custom EBS type
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
baseDomain: devcluster.openshift.com
metadata:
  name: ipi-localzone
compute:
- name: edge
  platform:
    aws:
      rootVolume:
        type: gp3
        size: 120
platform:
  aws:
    region: us-west-2
compute:
- name: edge
  platform:
    aws:
      zones:
      - <local_zone_name_1>
      - <local_zone_name_2>
pullSecret: '{"auths": ...}'
sshKey: ssh-ed25519 AAAA...
----

EBS types differ between locations. Check the AWS documentation to verify availability in the Local Zone in which the cluster will run.

.Configuration that uses an edge pool with custom security groups
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
baseDomain: devcluster.openshift.com
metadata:
  name: ipi-localzone
compute:
- name: edge
  platform:
    aws:
      additionalSecurityGroupIDs:
        - sg-1 <1>
        - sg-2
platform:
  aws:
    region: us-west-2
compute:
- name: edge
  platform:
    aws:
      zones:
      - <local_zone_name_1>

>       - <local_zone_name_2>

Author: Removed
